# Pointers, and an intro to Objective C.

These are a collection of my lecture notes.
My fist code is here,
https://github.com/squanto/xcode_notes/blob/master/TimeAfterTime/main.m


## This is what it's like in Ruby.
The value of a hash in Ruby is the whole thing.

ex:

	neddetails = {
		:first_name => "Ned",
		:last_name => "Ruggeri",
		:phone => "518-689-2687"
	}

The whole thing is a value. Somewhere in the computer, it is broken down into individual bytes that are stored in memory.

In Ruby, we don't have to point to data in particular slots of memory.

When you make a new variable and assign it,

	new_name = neddetails 

New name points to the same data that neddetails points to in memory. They point to the same objects in memory. So this happens,

	new_name[:phone] = nil
	ned_name[:phone]
		=> nil

## In Objective C

There are primitives and classes.

Here, there is the class name, NSString, the pointer *, the variable name strin1, and the value assigned (which is an NSString object).

	NSString* string1 = @"Hello"; 	

So in,

	NSString* string2 = string1;

string2 will point to the same object in memory as string1.

Also, 

	NSString* string1;
	NSString*string1;
	NSString *string1;

are all the same to the compiler.


Primatives (like this one), point directly to the variable.

	int i = 101; //i is 101
	int j = i; // j is i is 101. j is 101.
	j += 1 //j is 102. i is still 101.

The & thing goes from some value to where it lives in memory.

	int i = 101; // it's value is 101.
	int* ip = &i; //ip is not an integer, but a pointer to an integer assigned to i stored in memory.

ip is assigned up there to a pointer. 
the value ip is a hexadecimal that points to the address in memory where I is.

	int i = 101;
	int* ip = &i; // & goes from value to address.
	i += 1; /i is now 102.

When we change the value of I, we change what's stored in memory.
If you try printing ip, you'll get a long hexadecimal value.

But if we do:

	*ip // ip is now == 102.
We dereference it, and now it go from an address to a value.

---

	int i = 101; // Points to somewhere in memory.
	int* ip = &i; // ip points somewhere that has a pointer (a value that points somewhere else in memory).

	ip = 0x102003339…
	*ip = 101;

	int** ipp = &ip;
	*ipp => ip
	**ipp => i
	//That works too.


(Put the sum of these two numbers in the sump memory location. Wherever sump points to, get that space, and assign that space in memory to sump).

	void add(int num1, int num2, int* sump);
	{
		*sump = num1 + num2;
	}

Here, these variables all have their values stored somewhere in memory.
	
	int num1 = 9;
	int num2 = 4;
	int sum = 0;

	add(num1, num2, &sum);
&sum pulls the address of sum, creates the pointer to that integer. Now,  
sum == 13;

Now, these two things work..

	NSLog(@"%d", sum)// => "14"
	sum += 1;
	sum == 14; // => true.

---

	int num1 = 9;
	int num2 = 4;
	int sum = 0;
	int* sump = &sum; //sump is now some address for memory
										//of &sum. 
										// *sump == sum;

	*sump = num1 + num2; 
					// int + int = int
(This is going to do 9 + 4 and store that value at *sump. sump is still pointing to an address).


---
(Back to Ruby for a sec)

	def	add(num1, num2, result)
		result = num1 + num2
	end

	n1 = 9
	n2 = 4
	res = 0
add(n1, n2, res) # res == 0 still, result is lost to the ages.
	// All of these values are now stored in memory, and the values are the same, but they're in different objects.

---
(Back to Objective C)

	void add(int num1, int num2, int* sump) {
		*sump = num1 + num2;
	}

	int n1 = 9;
	int n2 = 4;
	int res = 0;

	add(n1, n2, &res);
		//This hold a new space in memory for 9 and 4
		//Instead of passing 0, we pass the address where 0 lives.


## Afterward
These notes are from Week 2, tuesday, day 12 of App Academy. 
The legit book (with exercises and explanations) that this scaffolds off of is the Objective C Big Nerd Ranch.

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6M3ObMnh5Vc

This helps too :)

Happy hackin'
<<<<<<< HEAD
=======

>>>>>>> 1a02598514bb6ac78fff0923c1a59840ddc66dcf
-Hugo







