# Structs
"Poor man's objects"
Have data and no methods.


struct keyword, followed by a name, followed by the fields of the struct..

	struct person {
		char* firstName;
		char* lastName;
		int age;
	};

struct is always lower case

	struct person p1;
	p1.firstName = "Ned";
	p1.lastName = "Ruggeri";
	p1.age = 26;
	printf("%s", p1.firstName);

### typedef- a special keyword

typedef is an anonymous struct. The way the following code reads is.. I would like to define an anonymous struct, with a firstName, lastName, and an age. Then, make that struct accessible by the alias (synonym) Person.

	struct _person {
		char* firstName;
		char* lastName;
		int age;
	};
	
	typedef struct _person Person;

You only use structs when you use the fastest possible things (eg graphics libraries). You'll encounter them, but won't use them very often. 

# Classes 
Every class starts out with an @ interface.
this will be contained in the .h file (header file), it will contain the interface. 
the methods will be defined in the .m file.
arc => Automatic Reference Calling (what adds the magic, we make classes inherit from NSObject to have access to this magic).
The .h file is all about description.
In Person.h =>

	@interface Person : NSObject
		-(void) SetFirstName:(NSString*)fname; //The declaration.
		-(NSString*) firstName;
		-(NSString*) lastName;
		-(int) age;
	@end

The minuses mean instance methods. Those are all instance methods.
If there was a + there, it'd be a class method.

You can only declare variables within the implementation. All instance varialbles have to be declared in the implementation. They start with an underscore by convention.
In the Person.m =>

	@implementation Person {
		NSString* _fname; //Instance variable.
	}
	-(void) SetFirstName:(NSString*)fname {
		_fname = fname; //Like a setter in Ruby.
	}
	-(NSString*) firstName{
		return _fname; //Like a getter in Ruby.
	}
	
	@end // The implementation keeps going until it hits this.

Variables (in the .m file) don't need a (-).

#### At main.m

	#import "Person.h"//Like require in Ruby.
	
	int main() {
		Person* p=[[Person alloc] init]
	}
alloc sets aside memory for the new object. The person needs space to live somewhere in memory. Alloc comes from what Person inherits from.

	[Person alloc]; => A Person* pointer.
	[[Person alloc] init]; => init is an instance method.

	int main() {
		Person* p =[[Person alloc] init];
		[p setFirstName:@"Ned"]; //Strange syntax, but essentially ruby.
		// selector
	}



### Aside on Functions and Methods
These two are similar in Ruby, but very different looking in Ojective C

Methods are called from classes. 
Functions take arguments and are just called. 


