## Using Methods

(Ned's sample app paired with these notes are available here,)
https://github.com/ruggeri/object-oriented-obj-c-demo/tree/master/ObjectOrientedObjectiveC


alloc and init, here, are methods that are called on classes or objects. 

	NSMutableArray *arr = [[NSMutableArray alloc] init];
	
	alloc
Alloc is a method called on a class. It gets the appropriate amount of memory somewhere for NSMutableArray.
	
	[NSMutableArray alloc]; //This returns an NSMutableArray pointer.

init is called on that pointer, initializes it, and returns that NSMutableArray object.

	[[NSMutableArray alloc] init]; //This returns the initialized object.

Also, there's a difference between NSArray and NSMutableArray.

	NSArray //You can't add or subtract objects from it, only change what the whole thing points to.
	NSMutableArray //You can change stuff around.

The differences between the two are for clarity of intent, not for memory's sake.

	NSMutabeArray *arr = [[NSMutableArray alloc] init];
	[arr addObject:@"Object 1!"];
	[arr addObject:@"Object 2!"];
	//You can only add objects to arrays.
	NSNumber *myNumber = [NSNumber numberWithInt:3];
	[arr addObject:myNumber]

	NSLog("%@", arr);

# Classes

check here:
https://github.com/ruggeri/object-oriented-obj-c-demo/tree/master/ObjectOrientedObjectiveC
for Ned's examples on this topic.


Two files are created when we create a class:

.h => Broadcast to the world, what methods are available to this class?
.m => Implementation.

the - at the beginning means it's an instance method.
The + at the beginning means it's a class method.


For Example, Critic.h :

	@interface Critic : NSObject
	-(NSString*)name;
	-(void)setName:(NSString*)name;
	@end
This tells the world: "When you have  a critic, you can call these methods.


Critic.m:
	
	@implementation Critic {
	NSString* _name; //the _name is an instance variable.
	}
	
	-(void)setName:(NSString*)name{
		_name = name;
	}

	-(NSString*)name {
		return _name;
	}

You could also write this code as:

	//In the .m
	@synthesize name;

in the main.m file:

	#import "Critic.h" // Gets the contents of the Critic class.

	Critic* c = [[Critic alloc] init]; //[Critic new]
	[c setName:@"Roger Ebert"]
	NSLog(@"%@", [c name])


### How Methods Are Named

In citic.h:

	(NSString*)rateMovie:(Movie*)movie numStars:(int)numStars;

and implemented in critic.m:

	-(NSString*)rateMovie(Movie*)movie numStars:(int)numStars {
	return [NSString stringWithFormat:@"movie: %@, rating %d", movie, numStars];
	
	}

and when you'd want to call it, call

	[critic rateMovie:movie numStars:5]

Todo:
1. Look into @property and @snythesize for making class definitions more concise.









	