# Intro To Model View Controller (From Rails To Objective C)

To follow along, check out the Stanford Objective C tutorials at ITunesU.

http:itunes.apple.com/itunes-u/ipad-iphone-application-development/id473757255?mt=10



.xib = .storyboard files for now. They're both a visual respresentation of the view.


All view controllers are subclasses of UIViewController, 


An outlet is a way a view controller can talk to a view. I can set these up by control dragging from the storyboard to the view controller header file.

The action- When someone finishes touching, call a particular method.

In the view, all buttons are objects, all of the moving parts here are objects, that can be passed back and forth between the view and the controller.

The view and controller interaction on an iPhone app is much more interactive than in Rails, where a view-to-controller interaction would call a whole nother server request.

## Asides
### On Breakpoints
iOS version of the ruby gem pry. 
If I stick a break point somewhere, when the code runs, it'll stop everything at that break point and let me play with different variables. 

## Rand()

	_questionNumber = rand() % [[self questionsArray] count];

This sets the _questionNumber instance variable to a random integer from 0 to the number of questions in that NSArray. When you call the associated stuff, you'll get random 

## NOTICE On Creating Classes and Objects

 Just because you define an attribute for a class DOES NOT mean that such an object is actually created. You have to make the object manually if you want to use it; otherwise that attribute will just be null.

 Unfortunately, methods called on null do not throw an error, they just return null (making life difficult to debug!).

Example: 

	@property (strong) NSMutableArray* articles; (from .h)
	@synthesize articles = _articles; (from .m)

 
This does NOT create a mutable array on the parent object initialization. To accompish auto-initialization of (in this case) a NSMutableArray for _articels, you need to override/extend the init method for the object.


