# Global Variables
- When you have data that doesn't change,

Ex: In a blackjack game, the cards to suits hash is something that we want to store globally.

in the .h

	@interface Card : NSObject
	-(NSString*) suit;
 	-(int) value;
	+(NSArray)allSuits; //returns an array of all suits.

It's a class variable instead of an instance variable because no single card really has to deal with the entire suit of cards. It's not a property of any single card.

in the .m

	@implementation Card : NSObject
	return [NSArray arrayWithObjects:@"Clubs", @"Hearts", @"Diamonds", @"Spades", nil];

The problem with this is that it saves a new array every time we call this method. Better to create a global variable, outside the scope of any class implementation.

(Always put global variables in the .m file).

in the .m

	NSArray ALL_SUITS; // You cant assign code 
	@implementation Card : NSObject;
	..
	@end

It's nil the first time, but we want to assign it the first time, and call it.

in the .m

	@(NSArray*)allSuits {
		if (!ALL_SUITS) {
			ALL_SUITS = [NSArray arrayWithObjects:@"Clubs", @"Hearts", 	@"Diamonds", @"Spades", nil];
		}
		return ALL_SUITS;

	}
	
Now when we need all the suits, we can call

	[Card allSuits]

Note that class methods can't access instance variables of individual objects.

# Init Methods

	@interface Hand
		@property NSMutableArray* cardsInHand;
	@end

The problem with this is that whenever we make a new hand object, cardsInHand returns nil instead of an empty array. Here's a direct way to set cardsInHand to an empty array by default.

in the .m

	@implementation Hand
	-(id) init {
		self = [super init] // Finishes the setup for self.
		if (self) {
			self.cardsInArray = [[NSMutableArray alloc] init];
		}
		return self;
	}

This actually redefines the init method. It's better than lazy instansiation. 


# Class Methods


# ARC (Strong and Weak)