Each UIView has a subclass view.

We're going to make

	@interface	SmileyFaceView : UIView
	@end

	@implementation SmileyFaceView
	-(void)drawWithRect:(CGRect)rect {
		// Also note that CGRect is a c struct.
		// All drawing code needs to go within drawWithRect (here).

	}

There are coregraphics for drawing lines, paths, graphs, fill paths, curves.

We want a bezier (?) curve.

Frames and Bounds. 
Every view can have subviews that live inside of it.

Normally the view starts off with (0,0) being the top-left corner.

self.bounds.origin = (0,0)
self.bounds.size.width => Width of the screen
self.bounds.size.height => Height of the screen

To get the center point of the screen:
 
	(self.bounds.origin.x + (self.bounds.size.width) / 2, 
	self.bounds.origin.y + (self.bounds.size.height) / 2)

Every UIView also has a frame. To know how big a whole frame is in the context of a larger view, use frame.width and frame.height.

Use frames for subviews. These are relative to whatever's holding it.

Use bounds when drawing within a veiw. These are relative to within that particular subview.

To draw, we need something called a context.

CoreGraphics is a C library. It's not object oriented. We'll be calling a lot of functions instead of a lot of methods.

CGContextRef keeps track of what we draw.

	@implementation SmileyFaceView
	-(void)drawWithRect:(CGRect)rect {
		[super drawRect:rect];
		self.backgroundColor = [UIColor redColor]; // ???

		// All drawing code needs to go within drawWithRect (here).
		CGContextRef context = UIGraphicsGetCurrentContext();
		
		// The UIKit function up there is a helper function here.
		// To help me with the lower level CG stuff.
		
		CGContextMoveToPoint(context, self.bounds.origin.x, self.bounds.origin.size.width / 2), self.bounds.origin.y + (self.bounds.size.height / 2));

		// Adds a line.
		CGContextAddLineToPoint(context, self.bounds.origin.x, self.bounds.origin.y + (self.bounds.size.height)); 
		
		// Now we want to stroke the path.
		// setting blue color to make the stroke blue.
		[[UIColor blueColor] set];
		CGContextStrokePath(context);

	}
	
So in our AppDelegate.m,

	self.window.rootViewController = [UIVuewController new];

	// This is the UIView that we've been making.
	self.window.rootViewController.view = [LinesView new];

	// Window is a UIWindow, not a view.
	[self.window makeKeyAndVisible];
	return YES;

Then create a true view controller. Stop doing what we did before.

	self.window.rootViewController = [LinesViewController new];

Then we can change the class of the viewController to LinesView.

You never call drawRect yourself.

*why is it called* drawRect?

drawRect is saying, a redraw has only been requested in a specific reason. That's an optimization to avoid having to redraw the entire view.

Check this in our smileyFaceVC.m,

	@property SmileyFaceView smileyView;
	
	-(IBAction)addGoatee {
	self.smileyFace.goatee = YES;

	// Now that we change the layout of this view, we essentially need to reload this portion of the view.

	[self.smileyFace setNeedsDisplay];

	}

In the event loop, we're waiting for events. They come in, actions get called. UIKit itself will call drawRect. There are no delegates for this. 

drawRect is a method of the UIView class.

Every UIView has a UIResponder. When a touch begins, it calls the touches begin,

	-(void)touchesBegan:(NSSet *)touches withEvent:(UIEvent *)event {
		// Ignore with event for now.
	}

How about this.

As long as someone is moving their finger across the screen.

	-(void)touchesMoved:(NSSet *)touches withEvent(UiEvent *)event 
	{
		[self setNeedsDisplay];
	}










