# Blocks

- They're bits of code. A lot like functions. A lot more like ruby procs.

- You can define them inside of other functions. 

- They're an easy version of functions. Code readers see the definition of blocks right where it's used.
	- Nobody else gets to call this block except for the guy that uses it.
- Blocks can be anonymous. They don't need a name.

- Blocks Capture variables.

Examples:

	NSArray *names;

	-(names *)sortArrayWithBlock:^bool(NSString* n1, NSString *n2)
	{
		return //some_code_here...
	}];


It can observe variables. What variables it captures insides is a pointer to particular objects.

	NSMutableString *s = [NSMutableString new];
	^{
	[s appendString:@"Hello string!"];

	}(); 

The parenthesis modifies the block.

	NSLog(@"%@", s);
		=> "Hello String!"

To modify a variable inside of a block, add this code to it.. 

	__block int numTimesCalled = 0;

	void(^myBlock)(void) = ^void(void) {
		//BTW, this is a callback. This is a callback. Doesn't take
		// any arguments, and doesn't give any arguements.
		// AKA completion blocks.
		numTimesCalled++;
	};

	for (int i = 0; i < 10; i++)
	{
		myBlock;
	}

You can change what lives at a particular value, but you can't change the pointer to point to some place in memory.s




Here's an example of a block that takes an integer, increments the integer, and returns an integer.

	int(^)(int) makeAdder(int increment) {
	return ^int(int val) {
			return val + increment;
		};
	}
	// increment and val are local variables.
	
	int((^fiveAdder)(int) = makeAdder(5);
	fiveAdder(4);


Here's what that example looks like with random increments.

	int(^)(int) makeRandomInteger() {
	int randInt = arc4random(); // A stack variables.
	return ^int(int val) {
			return val + randInt;
		};
	}
	* stack variables live as long as the function uses it is called. So this happens:
1. Create randInc on stack
2. create the block
3. Return the block // Block saves randInt's value in it's own value.
4. Destroy randInt
5. Call block
6. Uses randInc (?) // Blocks copy all of the variables that it needs onto the stack.


	int (^randomIncrementer)(int) = makeRandomIncrementer();
	
This declares a block variable. Here we have the first int, the return type, followed by the name of the block with the carot, followed by a list of input stuff.


	













