# More Blocks

Callbacks: asynchronous.

Thread- worker. Your worker can only be executing one line of code at a time.

To have different bits of code working at the same time, have more threads.

- Main thread. (worker). It's responsible for the UI. If the main is blocked for > 5 seconds, program is automatically killed (iOS failsafe).

The most common example is web requests. You don't know how long these will take (especially for mobile requests). Image processing and loading files also take lots of time. We do these in secondary threads.

Threads are complicated. IOS gives us a simple interface for threads. The first:


## First: Grand Central Dispatch. Library (libDispatch)
- C API
- We get queues to put blocks of work on
- GCD executes blocks in another thread when it can.
- We work with it through C functions. 

	dispatch_async(whatQueueToPlaceThingsOn, aVoidBlockCallback);

Main thread == Event Thread.


#### What's a queue?

Event queue: the queue of the app handling user events in a stack. This keeps this turning:

1. call your actions
2. call more of your code
3. screen gets redrawn
4. Events get handled
repeat.


Dispatch queue: 
	The main queue: Has both touch events and scheduled blocks. Anything in this main queue can block the event queue.
	

	-(void)beginWork
	{
		dispatch_async(
			dispatch_get_global_queue(
				DISPATCH_QUEUE_PRIORITY_HIGH, 0
			),
			^{
		   	 NSString *userName;
				 userName = someLongRunningCode(); // This block takes time to execute.;
			dispatch_async(dispatch_get_main_queue), ^{
				self.username.text = userName;
				});
				   		
			 }
		);
}

*UI changes have to occur in the main queue.

  @synthesize userLabel
 	-(void)beginWork
	{
		dispatch_async(
			dispatch_get_global_queue(
				// Always run background unless something breaks.
				DISPATCH_QUEUE_PRIORITY_BACKGROUND, 0
			),
			^{
		   	 NSString *userName;
				 userName = someLongRunningCode(); // This block takes time to execute.
				 dispatch_async(dispatch_get_main_queue(), ^{
						self.userLabel.text = userName;
					} 		
			 }
		);
  }

Work is assigned as it's written. Do not write code that relies on the order of things being done in the queues. They possibly work at different speeds at different times.

dispatch_async() gives orders to other threads immediatey.

New architecture for Iphones is two cores (two things can happen at once).

